MediaChest 2.1 

The latest version of MediaChest has switched to H2 Java embedded database.
It eliminates any needs to setup any external database as MS access or MySQL.
If you already have external database connection established, then you need to do
nothing, since MediaChest still supports it. However if you want to migrate to
H2 you may need to do the simple steps:

1. Database export in CSV
   In case of use MS Access you need to run Access application and do manual
exporting all tables in CSV format. Make sure that all exported files stored
in same directory.

   In case of MySQL use mysqldump utility executing the following command:
mysqldump -u <user> -p --tab=<existing directory to store CSV> <database name>
For example: mysqldump -u root -p --tab=mediachest MediaChest2
it is essential that CSV file name has to start with capital letter and have extension txt. 
   If you get error like: 
 Can't create/write to file '/.../mediachest/Album.txt' (Errcode: 13) ..
 then change write directory to /tmp. The reason of that is Linux has security manager
 preventing writing possibly executable code.

2. Preparing connection and schema
   In MediaChest UI go to Menu Tools/Options/Album, specify driver as org.h2.Driver,
Database URL as jdbc:h2:~/mediachest2, and user as sa. Keep password empty.
If you use H2 for some other tasks as well, then connection parameters can be
different.
Apply your changes and then click Drop tables to initialize new schema.

3. Importing previous data 
   Open Album tab as in preparing schema step. Click Import DB.
Specify directory where you stored CSV files. Specify import options 
as 
For MS Access 
separator - ,
Date format - MM/dd/yyyy hh:mm:ss
For MySQL
separator - \t
Date format - yyyy-MM-dd hh:mm:ss
Consult with CSV import format documentation for other databases.
If there is no errors, you won't see any notification, just refresh Album pane and enjoy
successful migration.  If there were any errors and you need to re-apply import, then
drop tables again, since here is no rollback mechanism and partially populated
schema will interfere with new import data.