Thank you for an interest to the MediaChest iPod extension!

What is MediaChest iPod extension?
----------------------------------

MediaChest is a powerful tool to organize a collection of different media 
files like pictures, videos, or audios. It gives different views of stored 
medias and allows fast access to them. In addition, it supports most of 
possible ways to share media files over Internet or portable storage devices.
The program is Java based, so commonly it can run on any platform.
iPod extension adds a capability to upload music files to iPod's hard disk and
update iPod database. Although it uses a common paradigm of synchronization,
a meaning of the synchronization is different.
MediaChest doesn't try to keep in sync music collection on desktop's and iPod's 
hard drives. The purpose of a synchronization is adding new files on iPod and 
delete some no more needed. Ideally, MediaChest should use iPod for storing 
all collection of media files, instead of duplication the collection in two 
or more places. Although storing files on iPod's hard disk can be considered
as some type of backup, I recommend to use standard backup procedures 
for this purpose.

Why MediaChest iPod extension?
------------------------------

Indeed, besides of iTunes there are many programs for similar purpose.
However, I was brave enough to write my own implementation, because:
1.Competition is only way to improve software, so my program will force 
  other vendors make software better. Check Wiki iPod manager to see that
  MediaChest is still most comprehensive program providing iPod support.
2.After trying iPod support from other vendors I found many disadvantages,
  as not supporting national alphabets in file names, weird procedure 
  synchronization, no ability to customize a definition information on stored
  media in a simple way, and some others, for example I do not like their UI.
3.I was needed a way to copy some part of my music collection stored as on hard
  drive as on CD disks on iPod and organize it in simple way for me with
  customizable artist/album names and other information.
4.I prefer to have Java implementation to be platform independent, although 
  Java implementation is lacking in speed of copying files in comparison to 
  such program as ephPod or iTunes.

How to install MediaChest?
--------------------------

MediaChest is Java program, therefore requires to have Java VM installed. It 
uses the latest Java VM, so if you are uncertain what is version installed on 
your machine, then visit http://java.sun.com to obtain the latest one. Select
JRE to save download time, unless you want to do own development.
Unzip MediaChest distribution zip file with preserving directories structure.
You should find directory MediaChest. Enter to this directory and start MediaChest.bat.
It should start MediaChest in few seconds. Initial screens of MediaChest may warn
you about unavailability of database connection, just ignore them. MediaChest uses
any RDBMS with JDBC access to store structured information about media files,
similar to iTunes, however this functionality is optional. You can suppress
access to database in options of the program.
If you run MediaChest under Windows, then you can use
Access database for this purpose. You need only allocate data source name and 
provide it in parameters of JDBC driver in options of the program.

Which Java VM?
--------------

MediaChest isn't a commercial quality product, it's a laboratory where I can try 
certain technologies, or approaches, or polish some skills. So, MediaChest is
always based on the latest available version of Java VM regardless what it is state
of it as production or beta. It can generates certain problems for some users on
platform where the latest version of VM unavailable. Fortunately, Sun provides VM
for most of platforms in one batch, so only users of Mac platform can be affected.
The last build supporting VM version 1.4 is 114. Starting from build 115 some
VM version 1.5 features will be used. I regret if I lose some users due that. Say more
the latest versions require JRE 1.7.

What's iPod?
------------
I successfully use MediaChest with iPods with dock connector, iPod photo, iPod video, 
iPod classic and iPod touch.
Unfortunately I do not own entire product line of iPods, so I can't tell for other
versions of this device. I will be always glad to accept donated units for testing and
tweaking MediaChest to support them.

How to use MediaChest?
----------------------

MediaChest has 5 general tabs to access different views of the program as
Album view, File browser view, Work collection view, Music ripper view, and
iPod view. Functionality for work with iPod reachable in menu File and in right 
mouse button pop-up menus. Before doing anything with iPod you need make sure 
that iPod is available as a removable disk. If you use Windows, then you have 
to check Enable disk mode in iPod Manager. MediaChest automatically recognizes 
connected iPod. For iOS based iPods iFusion has to be installed and iPod should be
visible in virtual file system. You can also provide location of iPod manually. 
You need to open Options panel (menu Tools/Options..) of MediaChest 
and scroll a bit to tab iPod and enter letter of iPod drive with :\ after (it's
only Windows file system requirements). You can also use a button browse to locate
iPod drive. It should have name IPOD in a list of available drives. Now you are 
ready to do first synchronization. Notice that you have to have iPod connected to
desktop FireWire or USB when you do iPod drive location. Select File/Sync iPod for
synchronization. After few second iPod view should be updated and you can see list
of files on your iPod. Select tab iPod and tree node All files in iPod tree on 
left panel. If you have some play lists on your iPod, then they should be displayed
in this tree too.  Now you can use a list of media files in tabs Browse and Album as
sources to add to iPod. Use right mouse button menu to add selected media files to 
iPod. You can add entire directories if you are in Browse view. It isn't requirement 
to do synchronization first, unless you want to see what you already have on iPod.
You can select synchronization again after finishing adding more new files. It's harmless
to use synchronization anytime. MediaChest can recognize when all songs are in sync.
Note that MediaChest never erases any song on iPod without your intension.
Warning!!! MediaChest isn't yet completely supports iOS based iPod, so use it in read only
mode.

Features list
-------------

This list related only to iPod support features.
1. supports old and new iTunesDB formats on iPod, so it's compatible with MMJB, MC9,
   and iTunes 11.x. You have to have 3G, 4G, mini, U2, iPod photo, iPod with color screen,
   shuffle, video, classic, touch, or nano. Supported audio formats are MP3, AAC, MP4, and WAV. 
2. supports renaming group of songs, like changing title, artist, album, genre, composer
   and year.
3. merges album, artist, genre and composer.
4. supports playlists including smart and on-the-go.
5. can play (MP3) or copy files from iPod with recreation folders reflecting song info.
6. allows to have different information about song in id3/aac tag and iPod database.
7. allows to edit id3 tags.
8. supports national alphabets and different encodings.
9. supports reordering play lists.
10. export playlists and iPod content in HTML and other formats.
11. copy album artwork to iPod photo/video as in group as individually.

What would you be aware?
------------------------

As every software (especially free) it can contain some bug which can issue files lost.
Therefore, make sure that you have backup copies of files especially for files stored 
on iPod.

How to report problems
----------------------
If you met any problems or have suggestions, then please e-mail me jaddressbook@gmail.com
Do not forget to attach mediachest.log file if you report a bug.

Donations
------------
Usually MediaChest doesn't ask for any donations, however to keep MediaChest up-to-date
with entire iPods product line, the author needs test units. So donations only for this
purpose will be accepted.

$Id: iPod.txt,v 1.11 2013/03/01 06:54:34 cvs Exp $